"Title"	"Journal"	"Year"	"PMID"	"Abstract"
"1"	"Cellular Uptake of the Atypical Antipsychotic Clozapine Is a Carrier-Mediated Process."	"Molecular pharmaceutics"	2018	"29944835"	""
"2"	"Clozapine-related Paroxysmal Supraventricular Tachycardia: a Case Report."	"East Asian archives of psychiatry : official journal of the Hong Kong College of Psychiatrists = Dong Ya jing shen ke xue zhi : Xianggang jing shen ke yi xue yuan qi kan"	2018	"29921744"	"Clozapine is considered to be more effective than other antipsychotic drugs for treating treatmentresistant schizophrenia. However, side effects of clozapine include agranulocytosis and, less commonly, cardiovascular disease, which is occasionally fatal. We describe a 56-year-old woman who developed clozapine-related paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia during clozapine dose titration and had a recurrence despite being treated with verapamil. For treatment-resistant schizophrenia, a slow titration of the clozapine dose is necessary, and potential cardiac side-effects should be monitored."
"3"	"Clozapine-Induced Cardiovascular Side Effects and Autonomic Dysfunction: A Systematic Review."	"Frontiers in neuroscience"	2018	"29670504"	""
"4"	"Calcium channel blockers for antipsychotic-induced tardive dyskinesia."	"The Cochrane database of systematic reviews"	2018	"29578611"	"Schizophrenia and related disorders affect a sizable proportion of any population. Antipsychotic medications are the primary treatment for these disorders. Antipsychotic medications are associated with a variety of adverse effects including tardive dyskinesia. Dyskinesia is a disfiguring movement disorder of the orofacial region that can be tardive (having a slow or belated onset). Tardive dyskinesia is difficult to treat, despite experimentation with several treatments. Calcium channel blockers (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil, flunarizine) have been among these experimental treatments.</AbstractText>: Schizophrenia and related disorders affect a sizable proportion of any population. Antipsychotic medications are the primary treatment for these disorders. Antipsychotic medications are associated with a variety of adverse effects including tardive dyskinesia. Dyskinesia is a disfiguring movement disorder of the orofacial region that can be tardive (having a slow or belated onset). Tardive dyskinesia is difficult to treat, despite experimentation with several treatments. Calcium channel blockers (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil, flunarizine) have been among these experimental treatments.To determine the effects of calcium channel blocker drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) for treatment of neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia in people with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or other chronic mental illnesses.</AbstractText>: To determine the effects of calcium channel blocker drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) for treatment of neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia in people with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or other chronic mental illnesses.We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (July 2015 and April 2017), inspected references of all identified studies for further trials and contacted authors of trials for additional information.</AbstractText>: We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (July 2015 and April 2017), inspected references of all identified studies for further trials and contacted authors of trials for additional information.We selected randomised controlled trials comparing calcium channel blockers with placebo, no intervention or any other intervention for people with both tardive dyskinesia and schizophrenia or serious mental illness who remained on their antipsychotic medication.</AbstractText>: We selected randomised controlled trials comparing calcium channel blockers with placebo, no intervention or any other intervention for people with both tardive dyskinesia and schizophrenia or serious mental illness who remained on their antipsychotic medication.We independently extracted data and estimated risk ratios of dichotomous data or mean differences (MD) of continuous data, with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We assumed that people who left the trials early had no improvement. We also created a 'Summary of findings' table using GRADE.</AbstractText>: We independently extracted data and estimated risk ratios of dichotomous data or mean differences (MD) of continuous data, with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We assumed that people who left the trials early had no improvement. We also created a 'Summary of findings' table using GRADE.Previous versions of this review included no trials. From the 2015 search, we identified three cross-over trials that could be included. The 2017 search found no new studies relevant to this review. The included trials randomised 47 inpatients with chronic mental illnesses in the USA and China. Trials were published in the 1990s and were of short duration (six to 10 weeks). Overall, the risk of bias was unclear, mainly due to poor reporting; allocation concealment was not described, generation of the sequence was not explicit, studies were not clearly blinded, and attrition and outcome data were not fully reported. Findings were sparse, no study reported on the primary outcome 'no clinically important improvement in tardive dyskinesia symptoms,' but two small studies (37 participants) found no difference on the tardive dyskinesia symptoms scale Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) scores between diltiazem or flunarizine and placebo after three to four weeks' treatment (MD -0.71, 95% CI -2.68 to 1.26, very low quality evidence). Only one study randomising 20 participants reported on adverse events, and reported that there were no adverse events with flunarizine or with placebo (very low quality evidence). One study with 18 participants reported no events of deterioration in mental state with diltiazem or with placebo (very low quality evidence). No studies reported on acceptability of treatment or on social confidence, social inclusion, social networks or personalised quality of life outcomes designated important to patients.</AbstractText>: Previous versions of this review included no trials. From the 2015 search, we identified three cross-over trials that could be included. The 2017 search found no new studies relevant to this review. The included trials randomised 47 inpatients with chronic mental illnesses in the USA and China. Trials were published in the 1990s and were of short duration (six to 10 weeks). Overall, the risk of bias was unclear, mainly due to poor reporting; allocation concealment was not described, generation of the sequence was not explicit, studies were not clearly blinded, and attrition and outcome data were not fully reported. Findings were sparse, no study reported on the primary outcome 'no clinically important improvement in tardive dyskinesia symptoms,' but two small studies (37 participants) found no difference on the tardive dyskinesia symptoms scale Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) scores between diltiazem or flunarizine and placebo after three to four weeks' treatment (MD -0.71, 95% CI -2.68 to 1.26, very low quality evidence). Only one study randomising 20 participants reported on adverse events, and reported that there were no adverse events with flunarizine or with placebo (very low quality evidence). One study with 18 participants reported no events of deterioration in mental state with diltiazem or with placebo (very low quality evidence). No studies reported on acceptability of treatment or on social confidence, social inclusion, social networks or personalised quality of life outcomes designated important to patients.Available evidence from randomised controlled trials is extremely limited and very low quality, conclusions cannot be drawn. The effects of calcium channel blockers for antipsychotic-induced tardive dyskinesia are unknown. Their use is experimental and should only be given in the context of well-designed randomised trials.</AbstractText>: Available evidence from randomised controlled trials is extremely limited and very low quality, conclusions cannot be drawn. The effects of calcium channel blockers for antipsychotic-induced tardive dyskinesia are unknown. Their use is experimental and should only be given in the context of well-designed randomised trials."
"5"	"Reduced levels of Cacna1c attenuate mesolimbic dopamine system function."	"Genes, brain, and behavior"	2017	"28186690"	""
"6"	"Clozapine-induced Supraventricular Tachycardia and its Treatment with Verapamil."	"Indian journal of psychological medicine"	2015	"26664091"	"Clozapine is known to be an effective antipsychotic for schizophrenia. Cardiovascular complications associated with initiation of clozapine include tachycardia, postural hypotension, and myocarditis. Factors associated with development of cardiovascular adverse events are not clearly known, and dose titration has been described to be one among the associated risk factors. We report a case of a 45-year-old man with treatment resistant schizophrenia who developed supraventricular tachycardia during initiation of clozapine and discuss the role of verapamil in its successful management. "
"7"	"Multiple inductive effects of carbamazepine on combined therapy with paliperidone and amlodipine."	"Journal of clinical pharmacy and therapeutics"	2015	"26009790"	"WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Carbamazepine is a potent inducer of cytochrome P450 3A and P-glycoprotein. However, there are no reports of the effects of carbamazepine on more than one co-administered drug.CASE SUMMARY: A 53-year-old female patient with schizophrenia and hypertension was on paliperidone 12 mg/day and amlodipine 5 mg/day. When carbamazepine was added to this prescription, the plasma concentrations of both drugs decreased dramatically in a dose-dependent manner. Although the patient's psychotic symptoms did not change, as a result, her mean blood pressure increased to 160·1/103·6 mmHg from 138·4/91·4 mmHg at a carbamazepine dose of 600 mg/day.WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Theses cases show the effect of carbamazepine induction on two drugs simultaneously. Care is required when carbamazepine is added to drug regimens including paliperidone or amlodipine alone or together."
"8"	"Enhanced dopamine-dependent hippocampal plasticity after single MK-801 application."	"Neuropsychopharmacology : official publication of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology"	2014	"25315194"	"Dopaminergic hyperfunction and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) hypofunction have both been implicated in psychosis. Dopamine-releasing drugs and NMDAR antagonists replicate symptoms associated with psychosis in healthy humans and exacerbate symptoms in patients with schizophrenia. Though hippocampal dysfunction contributes to psychosis, the impact of NMDAR hypofunction on hippocampal plasticity remains poorly understood. Here, we used an NMDAR antagonist rodent model of psychosis to investigate hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). We found that single systemic NMDAR antagonism results in a region-specific, presynaptic LTP at hippocampal CA1-subiculum synapses that is induced by activation of D1/D5 dopamine receptors and modulated by L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. Thereby, our findings may provide a cellular mechanism how NMDAR antagonism can lead to an enhanced hippocampal output causing activation of the hippocampus-ventral tegmental area-loop and overdrive of the dopamine system. "
"9"	NA	"Journal of neuroscience research"	2014	"24995437"	"Phencyclidine (PCP) is a noncompetitive, open channel blocker of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-ion channel complex. When administered to immature animals, it is known to cause apoptotic neurodegeneration in several regions, and this is followed by olanzapine-sensitive, schizophrenia-like behaviors in late adolescence and adulthood. Clarification of its mechanism of action could yield data that would help to inform the treatment of schizophrenia. In our initial experiments, we found that a-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) inhibited PCP-induced apoptosis in organotypic neonatal rat brain slices in a concentration-dependent and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione-sensitive manner. Calcium signaling pathways are widely implicated in apoptosis, and PCP prevents calcium influx through NMDA receptor channels. We therefore hypothesized that AMPA could protect against this effect by activation of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs). In support of this hypothesis, pretreatment with the calcium channel blocker cadmium chloride eliminated AMPA-mediated protection against PCP. Furthermore, the L-type VDCC inhibitor nifedipine (10 µM) fully abrogated the effects of AMPA, suggesting that L-type VDCCs are required for AMPA-mediated protection against PCP-induced neurotoxicity. Whereas the P/Q-type inhibitor <U+03C9>-agatoxin TK (200 nM) reduced AMPA protection by 51.7%, the N-type VDCC inhibitor <U+03C9>-conotoxin (2 µM) had no effect. Decreased AMPA-mediated protection following cotreatment with K252a, a TrkB inhibitor, suggests that brain-derived neurotrophic factor signaling plays an important role. By analogy, these results suggest that activation of L-type, and to a lesser extent P/Q-type, VDCCs might be advantageous in treating conditions associated with diminished NMDAergic activity during early development."
"10"	"P-glycoprotein activity in the blood-brain barrier is affected by virus-induced neuroinflammation and antipsychotic treatment."	"Neuropharmacology"	2014	"24973705"	"A large percentage of schizophrenic patients respond poorly to antipsychotic treatment. This could be explained by inefficient drug transport across the blood-brain barrier due to P-glycoprotein mediated efflux. P-glycoprotein activity and expression in the blood-brain barrier can be affected by inflammation and pharmacotherapy. We therefore investigated the effect of herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) induced neuroinflammation and antipsychotic treatment on P-glycoprotein activity. Rats were inoculated with HSV-1 or PBS (control) on day 0 and treated with saline, clozapine or risperidone from day 0 up until day 4 post-inoculation. Positron emission tomography with the P-glycoprotein substrate [11C]verapamil was used to assess P-glycoprotein activity at day 6 post-inoculation. Disease symptoms in HSV-1 inoculated rats increased over time and were not significantly affected by treatment. The volume of distribution (VT) of [11C]verapamil was significantly lower (10-22%) in HSV-1 inoculated rats than in control rats. In addition, antipsychotic treatment significantly affected the VT of [11C]verapamil in all brain regions, although this effect was drug dependent. In fact, VT of [11C]verapamil was significantly increased (22-39%) in risperidone treated rats in most brain regions when compared to clozapine treated rats and in midbrain when compared to saline treated rats. No interaction between HSV-1 inoculation and antipsychotic treatment on VT of [11C]verapamil was found. In this study we demonstrated that HSV-1 induced neuroinflammation increased and risperidone treatment decreased P-glycoprotein activity. This finding is of importance for the understanding of treatment resistance in schizophrenia, and warrants further investigation of the underlying mechanism and the importance in clinical practice."
"11"	"Reversible dimers of the atypical antipsychotic quetiapine inhibit p-glycoprotein-mediated efflux in vitro with increased binding affinity and in situ at the blood-brain barrier."	"ACS chemical neuroscience"	2014	"24483607"	"The multidrug resistance transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is highly expressed in the capillary endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) where it functions to limit the brain penetration of many drugs, including antipsychotic agents used to treat schizophrenia. Therefore, in an effort to inhibit the transporter, we designed dimers of the antipsychotic drug and P-gp substrate quetiapine (QT), linked by variable length tethers. In P-gp overexpressing cells and in human brain capillary endothelial hCMEC/D3 cells, the dimer with the shortest tether length (QT2C2) (1) was the most potent inhibitor showing &gt;80-fold better inhibition of P-gp-mediated transport than monomeric QT. The dimers, which are linked via ester moieties, are designed to revert to the therapeutic monomer once inside the target cells. We demonstrated that the addition of two sterically blocking methyl groups to the linker (QT2C2Me2, 8) increased the half-life of the molecule in plasma 10-fold as compared to the dimer lacking methyl groups (QT2C2, 1), while retaining inhibitory potency for P-gp transport and sensitivity to cellular esterases. Experiments with purified P-gp demonstrated that QT2C2 (1) and QT2C2Me2 (8) interacted with both the H- and R-binding sites of the transporter with binding affinities 20- to 30-fold higher than that of monomeric QT. Using isolated rat brain capillaries, QT2C2Me2 (8) was a more potent inhibitor of P-gp transport than QT. Lastly, we showed that QT2C2Me2 (8) increased the accumulation of the P-gp substrate verapamil in rat brain in situ three times more than QT. Together, these results indicate that the QT dimer QT2C2Me2 (8) strongly inhibited P-gp transport activity in human brain capillary endothelial cells, in rat brain capillaries, and at the BBB in an animal model."
"12"	"Verapamil for the treatment of clozapine-induced persistent sinus tachycardia in a patient with schizophrenia: a case report and literature review."	"Psychosomatics"	2013	"23820380"	""
"13"	"Ginkgo biloba: indications, mechanisms, and safety."	"The Psychiatric clinics of North America"	2013	"23538078"	"Ginkgo biloba special extract (EGb761) is used in most randomized control trials. Indications include cognition and memory in Alzheimer disease, age-associated dementia, cerebral insufficiency, intermittent claudication, schizophrenia, and multi-infarct dementia. Dosages range from 80 to 720 mg/d for durations of 2 weeks to 2 years. Mechanisms of action include increasing cerebral blood flow, antioxidant and antiinflammatory effects, with antiplatelet effects attributed to flavone and terpene lactones. Possible interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, alprazolam, haloperidol, warfarin, and nifedipine have been reported. Optimal dosage/duration, dose-response characteristics, drug interactions, bioavailability, long-term effects, and optimal intervention timing should be the focus of future work."
"14"	"Microtubule organization and L-type voltage-activated calcium current in olfactory neuronal cells obtained from patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder."	"Schizophrenia research"	2013	"23290267"	"Olfactory neuroepithelial cells in culture have been proposed as a model to study the physiopathology of psychiatric disorders and biomarker characterization for diagnosis. In patients with schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BD) diminished microtubule-associated proteins expression occurs, which might lead to aberrant microtubular organization and which in turn may affect Ca(2+) voltage-activated currents. The aim of this work was to characterize of microtubule organization as well as of the L-type Ca(2+) current in neuronal precursors obtained from nasal exfoliates of patients with SZ and BD. Microtubule organization was studied by immunofluorescence with a specific anti-III ß-tubulin antibody and by quantification of globular and assembled tubulin by Western blot. L-type current recording was performed by whole-cell patch-clamp technique and nifedipine superfusion. The results showed differential altered microtubular organization in neuronal precursors of SZ and BD. Short microtubules were observed in BD neurons, while extensive, unstained subcellular areas and disorganized microtubules were evident in SZ neuronal precursors. Patients with BD showed a decrease in amounts of tubulin in total homogenates and 40% decrease in the globular fraction. However, L-type current in BD was similar to that in healthy subjects (HS). In contrast, this current in SZ was 50% lower. These reduction in L-type current in SZ together with differential microtubule alterations are potential biomarkers that may differentiates SZ and BD."
"15"	"Epileptiform activity and cognitive deficits in SNAP-25(+/-) mice are normalized by antiepileptic drugs."	"Cerebral cortex (New York, N.Y. : 1991)"	2012	"23064108"	"Synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) is a protein that participates in the regulation of synaptic vesicle exocytosis through the formation of the soluble NSF attachment protein receptor complex and modulates voltage-gated calcium channels activity. The Snap25 gene has been associated with schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and bipolar disorder, and lower levels of SNAP-25 have been described in patients with schizophrenia. We used SNAP-25 heterozygous (SNAP-25(+/-)) mice to investigate at which extent the reduction of the protein levels affects neuronal network function and mouse behavior. As interactions of genotype with the specific laboratory conditions may impact behavioral results, the study was performed through a multilaboratory study in which behavioral tests were replicated in at least 2 of 3 distinct European laboratories. Reductions of SNAP-25 levels were associated with a moderate hyperactivity, which disappeared in the adult animals, and with impaired associative learning and memory. Electroencephalographic recordings revealed the occurrence of frequent spikes, suggesting a diffuse network hyperexcitability. Consistently, SNAP-25(+/-) mice displayed higher susceptibility to kainate-induced seizures, paralleled by degeneration of hilar neurons. Notably, both EEG profile and cognitive defects were improved by antiepileptic drugs. These results indicate that reduction of SNAP-25 expression is associated to generation of epileptiform discharges and cognitive dysfunctions, which can be effectively treated by antiepileptic drugs."
"16"	"Synaptic activity unmasks dopamine D2 receptor modulation of a specific class of layer V pyramidal neurons in prefrontal cortex."	"The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience"	2012	"22492051"	"Dopamine D2 receptors (D2Rs) play a major role in the function of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), and may contribute to prefrontal dysfunction in conditions such as schizophrenia. Here we report that in mouse PFC, D2Rs are selectively expressed by a subtype of layer V pyramidal neurons that have thick apical tufts, prominent h-current, and subcortical projections. Within this subpopulation, the D2R agonist quinpirole elicits a novel afterdepolarization that generates voltage fluctuations and spiking for hundreds of milliseconds. Surprisingly, this afterdepolarization is masked in quiescent brain slices, but is readily unmasked by physiologic levels of synaptic input which activate NMDA receptors, possibly explaining why this phenomenon has not been reported previously. Notably, we could still elicit this afterdepolarization for some time after the cessation of synaptic stimulation. In addition to NMDA receptors, the quinpirole-induced afterdepolarization also depended on L-type Ca(2+) channels and was blocked by the selective L-type antagonist nimodipine. To confirm that D2Rs can elicit this afterdepolarization by enhancing Ca(2+) (and Ca(2+)-dependent) currents, we measured whole-cell Ca(2+) potentials that occur after blocking Na(+) and K(+) channels, and found quinpirole enhanced these potentials, while the selective D2R antagonist sulpiride had the opposite effect. Thus, D2Rs can elicit a Ca(2+)-channel-dependent afterdepolarization that powerfully modulates activity in specific prefrontal neurons. Through this mechanism, D2Rs might enhance outputs to subcortical structures, contribute to reward-related persistent firing, or increase the level of noise in prefrontal circuits."
"17"	"Calcium channel blockers for neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia."	"The Cochrane database of systematic reviews"	2011	"22071797"	"BACKGROUND: Schizophrenia and related disorders affect a sizable proportion of any population. Neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medications are the primary treatment for these disorders. Neuroleptic medications are associated with a variety of side effects including tardive dyskinesia. Dyskinesia is a disfiguring movement disorder of the orofacial region that can be tardive (having a slow or belated onset). Tardive dyskinesia is difficult to treat, despite experimentation with several treatments. Calcium channel blockers (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) have been among these experimental treatments.OBJECTIVES: To determine the effects of calcium-channel blocker drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) for treatment of neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia in people with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or other chronic mental illnesses.SEARCH STRATEGY: We updated previous searches in May 2010 by searching the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Register using the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group search strategy.SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised clinical trials comparing calcium-channel blockers with placebo, no intervention or any other intervention for people with both tardive dyskinesia and schizophrenia or serious mental illness.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We planned to extract and analyse data on an intention-to-treat (ITT) basis. We intended to calculate the relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of homogeneous dichotomous data using a random-effects model, and, where possible, calculate the number needed to treat. We planned to calculate mean differences (MD) for continuous data.MAIN RESULTS: We did not include any trials in this review. We excluded 15 studies; eight were not randomised, one did not use calcium channel blockers, five small, randomised, studies reported no usable data and one did not include people with both tardive dyskinesia and schizophrenia.AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The effects of calcium-channel blockers for antipsychotic induced tardive dyskinesia are unknown. Their use is experimental and should only be given in the context of well designed randomised clinical trials."
"18"	"Raynaud’s phenomenon in a patient with schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder: a case report."	"Turk psikiyatri dergisi = Turkish journal of psychiatry"	2011	"21780344"	""
"19"	"Simultaneous determination of aripiprazole and its active metabolite, dehydroaripiprazole, in plasma by capillary electrophoresis combining on-column field-amplified sample injection and application in schizophrenia."	"Electrophoresis"	2010	"20665528"	"A sensitive high-performance CZE combining on-column field-amplified sample injection (FASI) has been developed for simultaneous determination of aripiprazole and its active metabolite, dehydroaripiprazole, in human plasma. A sample pretreatment by means of liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) (diethyl ether) with subsequent quantitation by FASI-CZE was used. The separation of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole was performed using a BGE containing 150 mM phosphate buffer (pH 3.5) with 40% methanol and 0.02% PVA as a dynamic coating to reduce interaction of analytes with the capillary wall. Before sample loading, a methanol plug (0.3 psi, 6 s) was injected to permit FASI for stacking. The samples were injected electrokinetically (10 kV, 30 s) to introduce sample cations and the applied voltage was 20 kV with on-column detection at 214 nm. Several parameters affecting the separation and sensitivity of the drug and its active metabolite were studied, including reconstitution solvent, organic modifier, pH and concentration of phosphate buffer. The linear ranges of the method for test drug and its active metabolite, in plasma using amlodipine as an internal standard, were over the range 5.0-100.0 ng/mL. One female volunteer (25 years old) was orally administered a single dose of 10 mg aripiprazole (Abilify, Otsuka) and blood samples were drawn over a 60 h period for pharmacokinetic study. The method was also applied to monitor the concentration of aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole in plasma collected after oral administration of 20 or 30 mg aripiprazole (Abilify, Otsuka) daily at steady state in one schizophrenic patient."
"20"	"Regional increase in P-glycoprotein function in the blood-brain barrier of patients with chronic schizophrenia: a PET study with [(11)C]verapamil as a probe for P-glycoprotein function."	"Psychiatry research"	2010	"20620031"	"P-glycoprotein (P-gp), a major efflux pump in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has a profound effect on entry of drugs, peptides and other substances into the central nervous system (CNS). The brain's permeability can be negatively influenced by modulation of the transport function of P-gp. Inflammatory mediators play a role in schizophrenia, and may be able to influence the integrity of the BBB, via P-gp modulation. We hypothesized that P-gp function in the BBB is changed in patients with schizophrenia. Positron-emission tomography was used to measure brain uptake of [(11)C]verapamil, which is normally extruded from the brain by P-gp. We found that patients with chronic schizophrenia under treatment with antipsychotic drugs compared with healthy controls showed a significant decrease in [(11)C]verapamil uptake in the temporal cortex, the basal ganglia, and the amygdala, and amygdalae, and a trend towards a significant decrease was seen throughout the brain. The decrease of [(11)C]verapamil uptake correlates with an increased activity of the P-gp pump. Increased P-gp activity may be a factor in drug resistance in schizophrenia, induced by the use of antipsychotic agents."
"21"	"[Effect of nifedipine on the effectiveness of antipsychotic therapy in schizophrenia]."	"Zhurnal nevrologii i psikhiatrii imeni S.S. Korsakova"	2009	"19738566"	"An aim of the study was to assess an influence of nifedipine in combination with haloperidol on antipsychotic activity and cognitive disturbances in comparison to the monotherapy with haloperidol and quetiapine. Sixty-two patients with ICD-10 diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia, chronic course, and undiffirentiates schizophrenia have been studied. Patients have been stratified into 3 groups each treated during 10 weeks. Patients of the 1st group (20) received haloperidol in combination with nifedipine, 2nd group (21 patients) received haloperidol and 3rd group (21) were treated with quetiapine. Effectiveness of therapy was assessed by PANSS, CGI and a battery of neuropsychological tests including the scale of cognitive functions. The total effectiveness of the combination of haloperidol with nifedipine did not differ from that of the monotherapy with haloperidol though was some more effective relatively to negative symptoms. The positive effect of this combination on thinking and cognitive functioning was comparable to that of quetiapine."
"22"	"[The use of nifedipine as a corrector of extrapyramidal side-effects of classical neuroleptics]."	"Zhurnal nevrologii i psikhiatrii imeni S.S. Korsakova"	2008	"18577931"	"The aim of the article was to study efficacy and safety of nifedipine in the correction of extrapyramidal side-effects emerged during conventional neuroleptics therapy. Fifty-one patients diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia received haloperidol in combination with nifedipine (25 patients) or haloperidol only (26 patients) during 26 weeks. Dynamics of psychopathological symptoms and extrapyramidal disorders were measured with PANSS, CGI, BARS, SARS and AIMS. Patients receiving haloperidol in combination with nifedipine had the lower AIMS scores indicating appearances of dyskinesia and less marked (on the trend to statistical significance) SARS scores measuring parkinsonian symptoms as compared to patients receiving monotherapy with haloperidol. The administration of nifedipine in combination with haloperidol did not reduce the therapeutic efficacy of the latter and did not lead to the increase of side-effects. The data obtained suggest that nifedipine may be used as a perspective corrector of extrapyramidal disorders caused by classical neuroleptics."
"23"	"Effect of the novel antipsychotic drug perospirone on P-glycoprotein function and expression in Caco-2 cells."	"European journal of clinical pharmacology"	2008	"18478216"	"OBJECTIVE: Perospirone (PER) is a novel atypical antipsychotic drug for the treatment of schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders. The multidrug resistance transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp), is involved in the efflux transport of several antipsychotics across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the modulating effect of PER on both Pgp activity and expression in Caco-2 cell monolayers.METHODS: The effects of PER were analyzed by means of rhodamine 123 (Rhd 123) assays, and those of Pgp expression were analyzed by flow cytometry and reverse transcriptase-PCR.RESULTS: Perospirone at concentrations of 0.01-30 microM, which were found to be non-cytotoxic towards the Caco-2 cells, was observed to inhibit Pgp-mediated efflux transport of Rhd 123 in the cells as well as to down-regulate the cellular Pgp protein and MDR1 mRNA levels in a concentration-dependent manner. In the rhodamine accumulation assays, 30 microM PER produced a 429% increase of the cellular Rhd 123 concentration, which exceeded the inhibitory effect of the well-known Pgp inhibitor verapamil.CONCLUSION: Our findings provide experimental evidence that PER is an inhibitor of Pgp which interferes directly and indirectly with the function of Pgp."
"24"	"Glycine-induced long-term synaptic potentiation is mediated by the glycine transporter GLYT1."	"Neuropharmacology"	2007	"17462677"	"The negative symptoms of schizophrenia are reverted by treatment with glycine or other agonists of the glycine-B site which facilitate NMDA receptor function. On the other hand, there are experimental observations showing that exogenous application of glycine (0.5-10mM) results in a long-lasting potentiation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission (LTP-GLY). The characterization of the mechanisms underlying LTP-GLY could be useful to develop new therapies for schizophrenia. The main goal of this work is to deepen the understanding of this potentiation phenomenon. The present study demonstrates in rat hippocampal slices that superfusion of glycine 1mM during 30 min produces a potentiation of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in CA3-CA1 pathway lasting at least 1h. Glycine application does not modify neither presynaptic fiber volley nor paired-pulse facilitation of synaptic potentials. This LTP-GLY is independent of both strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors and nifedipine-sensitive calcium channels. Interestingly, LTP-GLY is not inhibited but strengthened by NMDA receptors antagonists such as AP-5 or MK-801. In contrast, LTP-GLY is partially or totally blocked with the antagonists of glycine transporter GLYT1, sarcosine or ALX-5407, respectively. These results indicate that LTP-GLY requires the activation of GLYT1, a glycine transporter co-localized and associated to NMDA receptors. In addition, the fact that NMDA receptor inhibition increases LTP-GLY magnitude, opens the possibility that these receptors could have a negative control on GLYT1 activity."
"25"	"Clinical spectrum of the osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system (OROS), an advanced oral delivery form."	"Current medical research and opinion"	2006	"17022845"	"BACKGROUND: The osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system, OROS, is an advanced drug delivery technology that uses osmotic pressure as the driving force to deliver pharmacotherapy, usually once-daily, in several therapeutic areas.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this review is to discuss the evolution of OROS technology and examine the many therapeutic areas where OROS products are being used.METHODS: A search of Medline and EMBASE were performed using the keywords 'OROS' and 'osmotic delivery' for the period January 1990 to June 2005. Data were also obtained from the manufacturers' websites and associated publications.RESULTS: OROS technology has evolved over the last 30 years, resulting in four systems: the elementary osmotic pump; the two-layer osmotic push-pull tablet; the advanced longitudinally compressed tablet multilayer formulation; and, the L-OROS system. OROS technology is employed for drug delivery in many therapeutic areas including: cardiovascular medicine, endocrinology, urology, and central nervous system (CNS) therapeutics. Two calcium channel blockers utilizing OROS technology for the treatment of hypertension are nifedipine and verapamil. Glipizide extended-release is used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Doxazosin is used for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, and oxybutynin for overactive bladder. Most recent developments are with drugs that affect the CNS, including the use of methylphenidate for treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, paliperidone extended-release and OROS hydromorphone, which are under clinical development for schizophrenia and chronic pain, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Drug delivery using the various OROS products can result in an improved safety profile, stable drug concentrations, uniform drug effects, and reduced dosing frequency. OROS technology has also enabled the use of an effective starting dose, without the need for dose titration, which allows the achievement of symptom control much earlier than that observed with immediate-release preparations. Such attributes can enhance patient compliance and convenience, thereby ensuring efficacy and improving patient outcomes."
"26"	"Carbachol induces burst firing of dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area by promoting calcium entry through L-type channels in the rat."	"The Journal of physiology"	2005	"16081481"	"Enhanced activity of the central dopamine system has been implicated in many psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia and addiction. Besides terminal mechanisms that boost dopamine levels at the synapse, the cell body of dopamine cells enhances terminal dopamine concentration through encoding action potentials in bursts. This paper presents evidence that burst firing of dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area was under cholinergic control using nystatin-perforated patch clamp recording from slice preparations. The non-selective cholinergic agonist carbachol excited the majority of recorded neurones, an action that was not affected by blocking glutamate and GABA ionotropic receptors. Twenty per cent of dopamine cells responded to carbachol with robust bursting, an effect mediated by both muscarinic and nicotinic cholinoceptors postsynaptically. Burst firing induced as such was completely dependent on calcium entry as it could be blocked by cadmium and more specifically the L-type blocker nifedipine. In the presence of the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin, carbachol induced membrane potential oscillation that had similar kinetics and frequency as burst firing cycles and could also be blocked by cadmium and nifedipine. Direct activation of the L-type channel with Bay K8644 induced strong bursting which could be blocked by nifedipine but not by depleting internal calcium stores. These results indicate that carbachol increases calcium entry into the postsynaptic cell through L-type channels to generate calcium-dependent membrane potential oscillation and burst firing. This could establish the L-type channel as a target for modulating the function of the central dopamine system in disease conditions."
"27"	"Evaluation of the role of P-glycoprotein in the uptake of paroxetine, clozapine, phenytoin and carbamazapine by bovine retinal endothelial cells."	"Neuropharmacology"	2005	"15961125"	"Expression of the drug transport proteins, including P-glycoprotein (Pgp), in the brain vascular endothelium represents a challenge for the effective delivery of drugs for the treatment of several central nervous system (CNS) disorders including depression, schizophrenia and epilepsy. It has been hypothesized that Pgp plays a major role in drug efflux at the blood-brain barrier, and may be an underlying factor in the variable responses of patients to CNS drugs. However, the role of Pgp in the transport of many CNS drugs has not been directly demonstrated. To explore the role of Pgp in drug transport across an endothelial cell barrier derived from the central nervous system, the expression and activity of Pgp in bovine retinal endothelial cells (BRECs) and the effects of representative CNS drugs on Pgp activity were examined. Significant Pgp expression in BRECs was demonstrated by western analyses, and expression was increased by treatment of the cells with hydrocortisone. Intracellular accumulation of the well-characterized Pgp-substrate Taxol was markedly increased by the non-selective transporter inhibitor verapamil and the Pgp-selective antagonist PGP-4008, demonstrating that Pgp is active in these endothelial cells. In contrast, neither verapamil nor PGP-4008 affected the intracellular accumulation of [3H]paroxetine, [14C]phenytoin, [3H]clozapine or [14C]carbamazapine, indicating that these drugs are not substrates for Pgp. Paroxetine, clozapine and phenytoin were shown to be Pgp inhibitors, while carbamazapine did not inhibit Pgp at any concentration tested. These results indicate that Pgp is not likely to modulate patient responses to these drugs."
"28"	"Coupling of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptors alpha 7 to calcium channels in GH3 cells."	"Neuropharmacology"	2005	"15695160"	"The neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha7 (nAChR alpha7) may be involved in cognitive deficits in Schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. A fast pharmacological characterization of homomeric alpha7 receptors is mostly hampered by their low functional expression levels in heterologous expression systems. In the present study expression of homomeric nAChR alpha7 was achieved in GH3 rat pituitary cells. Alpha7 subunits were heterologously expressed as components of [125I]-labeled alpha-bungarotoxin binding nAChRs (Bmax: 1.2 pmol/mg protein). Function of the expressed alpha7 ion channels was assessed by patch-clamp recording and calcium imaging. While acetylcholine-induced currents desensitized within much less than 1 s, calcium-sensitive fluorescence transients peaked after 5-10 s and returned to background levels within 30 s only. The fluorescence signal was blocked by isradipine and removal of extracellular sodium indicated that in these cells opening of rapidly desensitizing alpha7 nAChR triggers calcium influx via voltage-gated, DHP-sensitive calcium channels. In this cellular system, agonists revealed the following rank order of potency: epibatidine&gt;anatoxin A&gt;AAR17779&gt;ABT-594&gt;DMPP&gt;nicotine&gt;GTS-21&gt;cytisine&gt;ABT-418&gt;acetylcholine&gt;choline&gt;ABT-089. All of the signals were inhibited by the alpha7 antagonists alpha-bungarotoxin (pIC50: 7.4) and methyllycaconitine (pIC50: 7.8). Further, marketed antidepressants showed antagonistic activity with the following rank order of potency: fluoxetine&gt;imipramine&gt;paroxetine&gt;sertraline. These data illustrate that coupling to voltage-gated calcium channels allows a rapid and reliable functional examination of nAChR alpha7."
"29"	"L-type Ca2+ channel blockers promote Ca2+ accumulation when dopamine receptors are activated in striatal neurons."	"Brain research. Molecular brain research"	2004	"15530653"	"Dopamine (DA) receptor-mediated signal transduction and gene expression play a central role in many brain disorders from schizophrenia to Parkinson's disease to addiction. While trying to evaluate the role of L-type Ca2+ channels in dopamine D1 receptor-mediated phosphorylation of the transcription factor cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB), we found that activation of dopamine D1 receptors alters the properties of L-type Ca2+ channel inhibitors and turns them into facilitators of Ca2+ influx. In D1 receptor-stimulated neurons, L-type Ca2+ channel blockers promote cytosolic Ca2+ accumulation. This leads to the activation of a molecular signal transduction pathway and CREB phosphorylation. In the absence of dopamine receptor stimulation, L-type Ca2+ channel blockers inhibit CREB phosphorylation. The effect of dopamine on L-type Ca2+ channel blockers is dependent on protein kinase A (PKA), suggesting that protein phosphorylation plays a role in this phenomenon. Because of the adverse effect of activated dopamine receptors on L-type Ca2+ channel blocker action, the role of L-type Ca2+ channels in the dopamine D1 receptor signal transduction pathway cannot be assessed with pharmacological tools. However, with antisense technology, we demonstrate that L-type Ca2+ channels contribute to D1 receptor-mediated CREB phosphorylation. We conclude that the D1 receptor signal transduction pathway depends on L-type Ca2+ channels to mediate CREB phosphorylation."
"30"	"Anabasine, a selective nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, antagonizes MK-801-elicited mouse popping behavior, an animal model of schizophrenia."	"Behavioural brain research"	2004	"15265637"	"The expression of the alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is diminished in selected brain areas of patients with schizophrenia. This diminished expression may account for the pathophysiological deficits of sensory inhibition and smooth pursuit eye movement performance in these patients. Furthermore, the deficits in sensory inhibition and smooth pursuit eye movement performance in schizophrenia appear to be inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion; thus, the &quot;alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-deficiency&quot; may be a necessary condition for expression of schizophrenia. This deficit has encouraged speculation about the possible therapeutic benefit of selective alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist interventions in this disorder. In view of this, we sought to examine the effect of anabasine, a selective alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, on popping behavior in mice elicited by MK-801. MK-801, a high affinity analogue of phencyclidine (PCP), is a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist that binds to the hydrophobic domain of this ligand-gated channel. PCP is known to precipitate a schizophreniform psychosis in susceptible individuals, causing productive (e.g. hallucinations) deficit (e.g. affective blunting, amotivation, and social withdrawal), cognitive and motor symptoms similar to those seen in naturally-occurring schizophrenia. Behaviors elicited by MK-801 in mice reflect a pharmacologically-induced state of NMDA receptor hypofunction (NRH), which has been proposed to exist in schizophrenia. Compounds that attenuate MK-801-elicited behaviors, which are identified in this animal model, may have the potential to treat schizophrenia, including deficit and cognitive symptoms. In the current study, anabasine attenuated MK-801-elicited popping at a dose that did not cause clonic seizures. The development of alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist interventions for schizophrenia must consider their potential liability to elicit seizure activity."
"31"	"Calcium channel blockers for neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia."	"The Cochrane database of systematic reviews"	2004	"14973950"	"BACKGROUND: Tardive dyskinesia is a disfiguring movement disorder of the orofacial region often caused by antipsychotic drugs. A wide range of strategies has been used to help manage tardive dyskinesia and, for people who are unable to have their antipsychotic medication stopped or substantially changed, the calcium-channel blocking group of drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) has been suggested as a useful adjunctive treatment.OBJECTIVES: To determine the effects of calcium-channel blocker drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) for treatment of neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia in people with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or other chronic mental illnesses.SEARCH STRATEGY: We updated previous searches of the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Register (1982-2000), Cochrane Library (Issue 4, 2000), Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's register of trials (November 2000), EMBASE (1980-2000), LILACS (1982-2000), MEDLINE (1966-2000), PsycLIT (1974-2000), and SCISEARCH by searching the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Register (September 2003). We searched references of all identified studies for further trial citations and contacted authors of trials.SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised clinical trials comparing calcium-channel blockers to placebo or no intervention for people with both tardive dyskinesia and schizophrenia or serious mental illness.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data were to have been independently extracted and analysed on an intention-to-treat basis. The relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of homogeneous dichotomous data were to have been calculated using a random effects model, and, where possible, the number needed to treat calculated. Weighted mean differences (WMD) were to have been calculated for continuous data.MAIN RESULTS: No trials were included. We excluded fourteen studies; eight were not randomised, one did not use calcium channel blockers and five small, randomised, studies reported no usable data.S CONCLUSIONS: The effects of calcium-channel blockers for antipsychotic induced tardive dyskinesia are unknown. Their use is experimental and should only be given in the context of well designed randomised studies."
"32"	"[Suicidal poisoning with antihypertensive drugs]."	"Przeglad lekarski"	2003	"14569890"	"In the period from 1990 to 2002, 201 patients with suicidal antihypertensive drugs poisoning were treated, including 138 women and 63 men from 15 to 84 (mean 36) years old. The main causes of suicides were various kinds of depression (63%) as well as psychopathy and/or sociopathy (16%) and schizophrenia (10%). Twenty eight patients attempted repeatedly to commit suicide. Thirty six persons were poisoned by only antihypertensive drugs, in 165 remaining cases intoxications were mixed including antihypertensive and other different medications. beta-blockers (38.3%), calcium channel blockers (34.8%), angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (24.3%) and diuretics (2.5%) were used in suicidal attempts. There were no suicidal poisonings with angiotensin II AT1 receptor antagonists, alpha 1-blockers and imidazole receptor agonists. In the examined group three patients died of cardiogenic shock, electromechanical dissociation and secondary acute respiratory failure resistant to therapy. The drugs used in these cases were propranolol, amlodipine, theophylline, captopril, doxepine, propafenone, furosemide, methimazole and alcohol. Mortality rate in antihypertensive drug poisonings was 1.5%."
"33"	"Uptake of clozapine into HL-60 promyelocytic leukaemia cells."	"Pharmacopsychiatry"	2002	"12107852"	"The atypical antipsychotic, clozapine, exerts superior efficacy in therapy-resistant schizophrenia, but unfortunately induces agranulocytosis with an incidence of 0.8 - 1 %. In this study, we investigated the cellular uptake of clozapine into human promyelocytic leukaemia HL-60 cells using HPLC with electrochemical detection. On incubation with 1.25 to 40 microM clozapine for 30 min, a saturable, energy- and temperature-dependent uptake process takes place (K m = 18.8 microM, k cat = 1.36 nmol/5 min/mg protein at 37 degrees C). This suggests membrane passage of clozapine by a carrier mechanism. 10 microM Indatraline, an inhibitor of dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin (5-HT) reuptake, but not the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine, markedly reduced the transport of clozapine by 62 %, whereas addition of 10 mM glucose to the incubation medium increased intracellular clozapine concentrations by 28 %. Since cyclosporine A, vinblastine or verapamil up to a final concentration of 10 microM did not alter the intracellular accumulation of clozapine, an involvement of P-glycoprotein seems to be unlikely. In summary, clozapine uptake into HL-60 cells meets criteria of an active unidirectional transport. Its molecular correlates remain to be established."
"34"	"Attenuation of ketamine effects by nimodipine pretreatment in recovering ethanol dependent men: psychopharmacologic implications of the interaction of NMDA and L-type calcium channel antagonists."	"Neuropsychopharmacology : official publication of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology"	2001	"11750186"	"Ketamine blocks the calcium channel associated with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors. It has transient behavioral effects in healthy humans that resemble aspects of schizophrenia, dissociative disorders, and ethanol intoxication. Ethanol is an antagonist of both NMDA receptors and L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCC) and it has minimal psychotogenic activity in humans. A double-blind placebo-controlled study was conducted that evaluated whether pretreatment with the L-type VSCC antagonist, nimodipine, 90 mg D, modulated ketamine response (bolus 0.26 mg/kg, infusion of 0.65 mg/kg/hr) in 26 ethanol-dependent inpatients who were sober for at least one month prior to testing. This study found that nimodipine reduced the capacity of ketamine to induce psychosis, negative symptoms, altered perception, dysphoria, verbal fluency impairment, and learning deficits. Nimodipine improved memory function, but had no other intrinsic behavioral activity in this patient group. Nimodipine pretreatment attenuated the perceived similarity of ketamine effects to ethanol as well as ketamine-induced euphoria and sedation. However, nimodipine did not reduce the stimulant effects of ketamine. These data suggest that antagonism of L-type VSCCs attenuates the behavioral effects of NMDA antagonists in humans. They support the continued evaluation of nimodipine in the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. They also suggest that drugs, such as ethanol, that combine NMDA and L-type VSCC antagonism may have enhanced tolerability without attenuation of their stimulant effects."
"35"	"Calcium channel blockers for neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia."	"The Cochrane database of systematic reviews"	2001	"11279683"	"BACKGROUND: Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a potentially disfiguring movement disorder of the orofacial region often caused by use of neuroleptic drugs. A wide range of strategies has been used to help manage TD and, for those who are unable to have their antipsychotic medication stopped or substantially changed, the calcium-channel blocking group of drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) has been suggested as a useful adjunctive treatment.OBJECTIVES: To determine the effects of calcium-channel blocker drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) for treatment of neuroleptic-induced TD in people with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or other chronic mental illnesses.SEARCH STRATEGY: Electronic searches of Biological Abstracts (1982-2000), Cochrane Library (Issue 4, 2000), Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's Register of trials (November 2000), EMBASE (1980-2000), LILACS (1982-2000), MEDLINE (1966-2000), PsycLIT (1974-2000), and SCISEARCH were undertaken. References of all identified studies were searched for relevant citations. Principal authors of trials were contacted.SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised clinical trials comparing calcium-channel blockers to placebo or no intervention for people with both TD and schizophrenia or serious mental illness were reliably selected.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data were to have been independently extracted and analysed on an intention-to-treat basis. The relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of homogeneous dichotomous data were to have been calculated using a random effects model, and, where possible, the number needed to treat calculated. Weighted mean differences (WMD) were to have been calculated for continuous data.MAIN RESULTS: No trials were included. Seven studies were excluded; five were not randomised and two small randomised crossover studies provided no usable data. Two more small randomised controlled trials await assessment. The authors have been contacted for relevant information.S CONCLUSIONS: Based on currently available information, no confident statement can be made about the effectiveness of calcium-channel blockers for treating people with neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia. Before evaluation of these drugs in larger randomised controlled trials, clinicians should carefully weigh up the possible benefits against their potential adverse effects."
"36"	"Biophysical and molecular properties of annexin-formed channels."	"Progress in biophysics and molecular biology"	2000	"10958928"	"The annexins are water soluble proteins possessing a hydrophilic surface, which belong to a family of proteins which (a) bind ('annex') both calcium and phospholipids, and (b) form voltage-dependent calcium channels within planar lipid bilayers. Annexins types are diverse (94 annexins in 45 species) and they belong to an enormous multigene family that ranges throughout all eukaryotic kingdoms. Although the structure of these proteins is now well known their functional and physiological roles remain largely unknown and circumstantial. Various experimental approaches provided evidence that annexins function as Ca(2+) channels that could act as regulators of membrane fusion. The identity of annexins is derived from the conserved 34 kDa C-terminal domain which comprises four repeats - except for annexin VI, with eight repeats - of a sequence of approximately seventy amino acids, which holds the area known as the 'endonexin fold', with its identifying GXGTDE. Annexins have been placed into three subgroups of (1) tetrad core and short amino terminal, (2) tetrad core and long amino terminal, and (3) octad core and short amino terminal. The repeats are highly conserved, each forming a compact alpha-helical domain comprising five alpha-helices wound in a right-handed superhelix. Four domains are formed, arranged in a nearly flat and cyclical array, with domains I and IV, and II and III respectively forming two tightly organised modules with almost twofold symmetry. A hydrophilic pore lies at the centre of the molecule, forming a prominent ion channel coated with charged and highly conserved residues. The annexin molecule is slightly curved, with both a convex and a concave face. The cation/anion permeability ratios and the selectivity sequence of the ion channels formed by several annexins confirm the selectivity of the annexins for Ca(2+) over other divalent cations, and reveals the importance of structural sites, e.g. amino acid positions 17, 78, 95 and 112 for the identification of the ion channel's position, function and regulation. Some are sensitive to low doses of the phenothiazine drugs, trifluoperazine (an anti-schizophrenia drug) and promethazine (anti nausea drug) La(3+) and Cd(2+), (blockers of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels) nifedipine (an inhibitor of non-activating Ca(2+) channels). There are two main competing models used to explain in vitro ion channel activity of annexins: one involves changes in the conductance of ion via electrostatic disturbance of the membrane surface; the other involves a much more extensive alteration in protein structure and a correspondingly deeper penetration into the membrane."
"37"	"Diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine or verapamil for neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia."	"The Cochrane database of systematic reviews"	2000	"10796323"	"BACKGROUND: Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a potentially disfiguring movement disorder of the orofacial region often caused by use of neuroleptic drugs. A wide range of strategies have been used to help manage TD and, for those who are unable to have their antipsychotic medication stopped or substantially changed, the calcium-channel blocking group of drugs (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil) has been suggested as a useful adjunctive treatment.OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical efficacy of calcium-channel blockers in people with neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia (TD) and schizophrenia or other chronic mental illnesses.SEARCH STRATEGY: Electronic searches of Biological Abstracts (1982-1995), Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's Register of trials (1995), EMBASE (1980-1995), LILACS (1982-1996), MEDLINE (1966-1995), PsycLIT (1974-1995), and SCISEARCH were undertaken. References of all identified studies were searched for further trial citations. Principal authors of trials were contacted.SELECTION CRITERIA: The inclusion criteria for all relevant randomised studies were that they should focus on people with schizophrenia or other chronic mental illnesses, with neuroleptic-induced TD and compare the use of calcium-channel blockers to placebo or no intervention.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No data could be extracted from the two randomised controlled trials that are currently awaiting assessment. The authors have been contacted to provide the relevant information.MAIN RESULTS: No studies met the entry criteria. No data were synthesized.S CONCLUSIONS: Based on currently available information, no confident statement can be made about the effectiveness of calcium-channel blockers for treating people with neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia. Before evaluation of these drugs in larger randomised controlled trials, clinicians should carefully weigh up their possible benefits against their potential adverse effects."
"38"	"Comparative pharmacology of bipolar disorder and schizophrenia."	"Schizophrenia research"	1999	"10507527"	"The treatment of acute mania and schizophrenia overlap considerably in terms of the typical and atypical neuroleptics, but begin to diverge with the recognized mood stabilizers for bipolar affective illness--lithium, carbamazepine, and valproate--which are substantially less effective in schizophrenia than in affective illness. Moreover, the L-type calcium channel blocker verapamil is reported to be effective in mania, but it may exacerbate schizophrenia. A series of new putative mood stabilizing anticonvulsants (such as lamotrigine, gabapentin, and topiramate) and possible second-messenger targeted treatments (tamoxifen and omega-3 fatty acids) deserve further study in both affective and schizophrenic syndromes. Repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of the brain offers considerable promise in the treatment of a variety of neuropsychiatric syndromes, especially with preliminary evidence of frequency-dependent effects on regional cerebral blood flow. New insights about the potential neurotrophic effects of lithium and the gene transcriptional effects of other psychotropics offer exciting new targets for therapeutics and strategies for future clinical trials and therapeutic applications in both syndromes."
"39"	"Calcium channel blockers in psychiatric disorders: a review of the literature."	"Canadian journal of psychiatry. Revue canadienne de psychiatrie"	1999	"10500866"	"OBJECTIVES: To review the published literature of the past 15 years regarding use of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) in psychiatric practice. These drugs, especially verapamil, have been recommended as possible treatments for mania and other disorders.METHODS: The Cumulative Medical Index and other databases were searched and back-tracked to locate relevant articles. Sixty-one such articles were uncovered: 37 anecdotal reports, 7 partially controlled reports, and 17 controlled trials.RESULTS: Most studies involved treatment of mania using verapamil. Although anecdotal reports were generally favourable, results from partially controlled reports or controlled clinical trials were mixed. Generally, verapamil was less effective than was lithium or placebo. Treatment of depression with CCBs was not very successful, regardless of the type of trial; the best trial was negative. The same was true for the treatment of schizophrenia, although the cases studied were extremely chronic and treatment-resistant. Evidence for efficacy in other illnesses, such as Alzheimer's disease or tardive dyskinesia was scanty but suggested that further trials might be in order.CONCLUSIONS: CCBs do not at present have an established place in psychiatric treatment. Nonetheless, clinicians faced with a manic patient not responsive to other antimanic drugs, either alone or in combination, might consider adding verapamil as an adjunct. A study bearing on this specific issue is needed to determine whether or not such off-label use would really be justified."
"40"	"Treatment of clozapine induced hypertension and possible mechanisms."	"Clinical neuropharmacology"	1998	"9579304"	""
"41"	"Effects of nifedipine, a calcium channel antagonist, on cognitive function in schizophrenic patients with tardive dyskinesia."	"Clinical neuropharmacology"	1997	"9260735"	"We examined whether nifedipine, a calcium channel antagonist, added to a stable regimen of neuroleptic medication would affect cognition in patients with chronic schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who had tardive dyskinesia. Fifteen patients with tardive dyskinesia were treated with nifedipine (60 mg daily) or matching placebo for 4 weeks and then were crossed over from nifedipine to placebo or from placebo to nifedipine for another 4 weeks. At the end of each 4-week phase of the study, the patients performed a rotary pursuit test of procedural learning and a dementia scale assessing general cognitive abilities. Nifedipine improved performance in the rotary pursuit test and conceptual abilities in the dementia scale compared with placebo, but only for patients who first were exposed to the tests during the placebo condition. These results provide preliminary evidence that calcium channel antagonists might enhance learning and memory in schizophrenic patients with tardive dyskinesia."
"42"	"Unbiased cocaine conditioned place preferences (CPP) obscures conditioned locomotion, and nimodipine blockade of cocaine CPP is due to conditioned place aversions."	"Psychopharmacology"	1997	"9160848"	"The effect of nimodipine (0, 0.1, 1.0 and 10 mg/kg, SC), a dihydropyridine L-type Ca2+ channel antagonist, on the establishment of cocaine-(10 mg/kg IP) conditioned place preferences (CPP) was investigated. Nimodipine produced conditioned place aversions (CPA) on its own; reductions in cocaine CPP are apparently due to this CPA. There is a high negative correlation between time spent in the CS+ compartment and the difference in locomotion rates between the CS+ and the non-drug (CS-) compartments, independent of drug effects. This relationship is responsible for an increased rate of locomotion observed in the CS- compartment in cocaine-conditioned rats. Analysis of covariance indicated that cocaine CPP occurred independently of cocaine's effects on locomotion. Furthermore, cocaine produces an increase in the rate of locomotion in the CS+ compartment when time spent in this compartment is equated with time spent in the CS- compartment. This suggests that cocaine's effects on CPP and &quot;conditioned&quot; locomotion are due to separate mechanisms of action. On the other hand, nimodipine-induced place aversions and locomotor rates are not independent of each other, indicating a common mechanism of action, or that one is a consequence of the other. It is concluded that place preferences and place aversions can sometimes be secondary to compartment-specific locomotor changes, and locomotion effects can be confounded by differential times spent in each compartment. The relationships between these two behaviours must be controlled for before conclusions of CPP or CPA can be drawn in drug conditioning studies."
"43"	"Calcium channel blockers for anxiety disorders?"	"Annals of clinical psychiatry : official journal of the American Academy of Clinical Psychiatrists"	1996	"8986318"	"The role of calcium in the etiology of anxiety has been proposed for several decades. Calcium channel blockers profoundly influence calcium metabolism and the transport of calcium. Even though the evidence for the role of calcium remains weak, drugs affecting calcium might be useful in the treatment of anxiety disorders. One of these compounds, verapamil, has been used to treat mood disorders. Calcium channel blockers have also been tried in other indications such as premenstrual syndrome, irritable bowel syndrome, schizophrenia, tardive dyskinesia, and Tourette's syndrome. However, the number of articles on the use of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of anxiety disorders is low. Three reports (two open, one double-blind) described some success in the treatment of panic disorder with verapamil, diltiazem, or nimodipine and one open-label study described unsuccessful treatment of anxiety and phobia with nifedipine in patients with various anxiety disorders. Further double-blind placebo-controlled studies of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of anxiety disorders are warranted to determine a possible role of these compounds in the armamentarium of antianxiety drugs."
"44"	"Nilvadipine is effective for chronic schizophrenia in a double-blind placebo-controlled study. off."	"Journal of clinical psychopharmacology"	1996	"8959468"	"We investigated the efficacy of nilvadipine, a calcium channel inhibitor, for psychiatric symptoms and tardive dyskinesia in 30 patients with chronic schizophrenia in a placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study. The total scores of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale decreased significantly when the patients were on nilvadipine compared with placebo. Improvement was particularly significant in emotional withdrawal and uncooperativeness. Nilvadipine was not effective, however, for tardive dyskinesia. No adverse effects, such as hypotension, occurred."
"45"	"Anticholinergic overdose induced torsade de pointes successfully treated with verapamil."	"Japanese heart journal"	1996	"9057687"	"An 18-year-old schizophrenic female was recently treated after overdosing on trihexyphenidyl, thioridazine and an unknown antidepressant. On presentation to a local hospital, she was cyanotic with dilatated pupils and in acute respiratory failure. She was intubated prior to transfer. While in our Emergency Department, she exhibited occasional premature ventricular contractions which later became intermittent torsade de pointes. As this was an anticholinergic overdose we infused sodium bicarbonate in an attempt to increase protein binding, hoping to decrease the concentration of toxic metabolites. We also tried to suppress the dysrhythmia by infusing magnesium. The potassium level was borderline low so a supplemental infusion was initiated. Defibrillation was attempted. To try to shorten the action potential duration by activating the K+ channel, an isuprel infusion was also attempted. All methods failed. The patient fluctuated between an irregular sinus rhythm with prolonged QT interval and pulseless torsade de pointes for almost 24 hours. At all times, she responded appropriately to pain. Finally we attempted blockade of the calcium channel using verapamil with dramatic results. Each single bolus (0.1 mg/kg) successfully converted the patient back to sinus rhythm for some 15-20 minutes before the torsade recurred. After the initiation of a continuous verapamil infusion (0.005 mg/kg/hr), the patient remained in stable sinus rhythm. Verapamil proved highly effective in this patient with an anticholinergic overdose induced dysrhythmia."
"46"	"Administration of antidepressants, diazepam and psychomotor stimulants further confirms the utility of Flinders Sensitive Line rats as an animal model of depression."	"Psychopharmacology"	1995	"8539339"	"Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats have been proposed as an animal model of depression because they resemble depressed humans in that they have elevated REM sleep, reduced activity, and increased immobility and anhedonia after exposure to stressors. The present paper reviews experiments on the drug treatment of FSL and control Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats related to their utility as an animal model of depression, and presents new information. FSL rats exhibited exaggerated immobility in the forced swim test which is counteracted by the tricyclic antidepressants imipramine and desipramine and the serotonin reuptake blocker sertraline; the low immobility exhibited by the FRL rats is generally unaffected by these compounds. In contrast to these &quot;therapeutic&quot; effects of well recognized antidepressants, lithium and bright light treatment did not alter the exaggerated immobility of FSL rats. Novel data indicated that neither FSL nor FRL rats exhibited alterations in swim test immobility following chronic administration of the psychomotor stimulant amphetamine (2 mg/kg) and the anticholinergic scopolamine (2 mg/kg), which typically reduce immobility after acute administration. However, it was found that the calcium channel blockers verapamil (5 and 15 mg/kg) and nicardipine (10 mg/kg) did reduce the exaggerated immobility in FSL rats following chronic administration, suggesting that these compounds need to be evaluated further in humans. Previous studies have indicated no differences between FSL and FRL rats evaluated in the elevated plus maze, either at baseline or after the administration of diazepam, suggesting that the FSL rat may not differ from controls in anxiety-related behavior. Another recently published study showed that the FSL rat also did not differ from normal Sprague-Dawley rats in startle tests, indicating that the FSL rats do not exhibit behaviors shown in animal models of schizophrenia. These findings confirm the utility of FSL rats as an animal model of depression because the FSL rats do not appear to exhibit behaviors analogous to anxiety or schizophrenia and because they respond &quot;therapeutically&quot; to antidepressants and not psychomotor stimulants."
"47"	"Effectiveness of nilvadipine in two cases of chronic schizophrenia."	"Psychiatry and clinical neurosciences"	1995	"9179944"	"Nilvadipine is a calcium channel inhibitor used commonly for the treatment of cerebrovascular insufficiency. We observed two patients with schizophrenia whose psychiatric symptoms and tardive dyskinesia improved after the addition of nilvadipine to their antipsychotic drug regimen. The total score of the brief psychiatric rating scale (BPRS) in case 1 fell from 56 to 42 after 8 weeks on nilvadipine; while that of case 2 fell from 44 to 32. The total score of the abnormal involuntary movement scale (AIMS) in case 2 decreased from 12 to 7. No adverse effects occurred during treatment. Nilvadipine may thus offer a new approach to the adjunctive treatment of schizophrenia."
"48"	"[Role of excitatory amino acids in neuropathology]."	"Medicina"	1995	"8728878"	"Excitatory amino acids (EAA) became known as neurotransmitters of the central nervous system (CNS) in the last decade. The most studied EAA are glutamate and aspartate. Both are synthetized by the same mechanism as gamaaminobutyric acid. (Fig. 1). Glutamate is widely distributed in the CNS and the spinal cord, being the areas of higher concentration the cerebral cortex, the hypocampus and the cerebellum. There have been identified two type of receptors for glutamate: ionotropic and metabotropic. The former includes three different types: NMDA, AMPA and KA. NMDA receptor is coupled to a Na+ and Ca2+ channel being the second ion the most important one. This receptor has several sites of binding for various substances. Along with the site for N-methyl-D-aspartate, which binds glutamate and/or aspartate, there have been identified a site for the binding of glycine (which is different from the strychnine sensitive one), a site for poliamines such as spermine and spermidine, and a site for the binding of Zn2+ (Table 1). AMPA receptor is associated to a Ca(2+)-Na+ channel, being in this case the Na+ the most important ion. There are two metabotropic type receptors: L-AP4 and trans-ACPD. Both are coupled to a G protein and agonists exert their action increasing phospholipase C activity which in turn induces an increment of IP3 and diacyl-glicerol, and a consecutive releasing of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. EAA play a role in some physiological processes. One of them is long-term potentiation (LTP), an electrochemical phenomenon involved in memory consolidation. Antagonists of NMDA and AMPA receptor prevent the development of LTP, and conversely, the agonist of glycine site of NMDA receptor--D-cycloserine--facilitates memory consolidation. Since 1957, EAA are considered neurotoxic substances and there are many indirect evidences to support this statement. Pathogenesis of neuronal damage elicited by EAA involves the events shown in Fig. 3. Prevention of the cascade of events that provokes neurotoxicity may be achieved by NMDA antagonists, but once it has begun it may be only aborted subtracting the Ca2+ from the medium, using nifedipine or blocking AMPA receptor with an antagonist (CNQX). EAA have been shown to play a toxic role in neuronal damage induced by ischemia. Research using various experimental models demonstrated that NMDA receptor antagonists (i.e. MK 801) blocks postischemic damage. Interventions at various levels of the pathogenic cascade shown in Fig. 4 provoke the same results. There is enough evidence to suspect that NMDA and AMPA receptors are altered in epilepsy. NMDA antagonists (i.e. MK801 or AP5) prevent the development of epileptic seizures induced by kindling; CNQX, an AMPA antagonist, blocks the increase in electrical activity induced by K+ in slices of hypocampus; felbamate, an antiepileptic drug, blocks the glycine site (not strychnine sensitive) decreasing NMDA receptor activity. Several neurodegenerative disorders have been associated with exogenous administration or accidental intake of EAA. (i.e. neurolatirism, Guam disease). Similarities between these diseases and lateral aminotrophic sclerosis indicate that in the latter EAA may play a pathogenic role. Finally, the psychotomimetic effect of phencyclidine (an antagonist of NMDA receptor) suggests that in schizophrenia, together with dopaminergic neurotransmission impairment, some dysfunction of glutamate pathways may be present."
"49"	"Calcium channel blockade interacts with a neuroleptic to attenuate the conditioning of amphetamine's behavioral effects in the rat."	"Biological psychiatry"	1992	"1388060"	"Conditioned responses to drug-related cues appear to be related to the maintenance of stimulant addiction. These conditioned responses are not blocked by treatments that block the direct effects of stimulants and may contribute to the high rate of relapse of addicts. Rats administered (+)-amphetamine in a specific environment exhibit conditioned locomotion when subsequently placed in that environment without drugs. The neuroleptic haloperidol significantly attenuated amphetamine-induced locomotor activity but failed to reduce conditioned locomotion. Nimodipine, an L-type calcium channel antagonist, had no effect on amphetamine-induced unconditioned or conditioned locomotion. However, combined nimodipine and haloperidol treatment blocked the unconditioned and attenuated the conditioned locomotor response to amphetamine. Conjunctive therapy with nimodipine and haloperidol may provide an efficacious treatment for stimulant addiction. In addition, nimodipine may provide an important adjunctive therapy for schizophrenia, allowing the use of lower doses of neuroleptic to avoid extrapyramidal side effects."
"50"	"A clinical trial of nifedipine in schizophrenia and tardive dyskinesia."	"Pharmacology, biochemistry, and behavior"	1991	"1686106"	"Effects of the dihydropyridine calcium channel inhibitor nifedipine on chronic schizophrenia and tardive dyskinesia were studied in an 8-week double-blind crossover trial. Four of the ten patients had tardive dyskinesia, and three of these were not receiving neuroleptics. No effects on symptoms of chronic schizophrenia were found using Psychiatric Symptom Assessment Scale ratings. In the four patients with tardive dyskinesia, an average improvement in total Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale scores of 57% was observed. These data suggest that dihydropyridine calcium channel inhibitors may be effective in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia in schizophrenic patients."
"51"	"Effects of nifedipine on psychosis and tardive dyskinesia in schizophrenic patients."	"Journal of clinical psychopharmacology"	1991	"1674950"	"In an open label study, two fixed doses of nifedipine (30 mg and 60 mg daily) were added to the usual antipsychotic drug treatments of 10 patients suffering from chronic schizophrenia. While no patient experienced significant improvements, statistically significant falls in Brief Psychiatric Rating Scales scores were observed. A significant reduction in Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale scores was observed in those patients with tardive dyskinesia. After the addition of nifedipine, four of the 10 patients showed large increases in plasma neuroleptic activity (radioreceptor assay) that decreased to baseline levels within two weeks. The possibility that this represents competitive inhibition and subsequent induction of the liver metabolism of the antipsychotic drugs is discussed. Adverse effects encountered are also discussed."
"52"	"Effects of adjunctive verapamil administration in chronic schizophrenic patients."	"Progress in neuro-psychopharmacology &amp; biological psychiatry"	1991	"1677775"	"1. The efficacy of adjunctive verapamil on psychopathological symptoms and tardive dyskinesia was investigated in 22 chronic schizophrenic patients, who had partially responded to neuroleptics. 2. After 28 days verapamil administration (240 mg/day) a significant improvement was found in anxiety-depression, and in some positive and negative symptoms. Three of the 22 patients showed clinically pronounced global improvement. 3. The treatment was ineffective in tardive dyskinesia."
"53"	"Nifedipine in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia."	"Journal of clinical psychopharmacology"	1990	"1981070"	"There have been several case reports of improvement in tardive dyskinesia (TD) after treatment with calcium-blocking agents. We have conducted prior single-blind (rater-blind) studies of verapamil and diltiazem and found a statistically significant improvement in TD with verapamil, and a small improvement that did not reach statistical improvement after diltiazem treatment. We now report a single-blind (rater-blind) study of a third calcium antagonist, nifedipine, in the treatment of TD. Nifedipine (30-60 mg/day) was administered to eight schizophrenic patients with TD. Mean AIMS scores on items 1-7 decreased from 12.9 +/- 2.0 (SD) at baseline to 10.8 +/- 2.7 after treatment (t = 3.66, p = 0.01). All subjects were able to tolerate the maximal dose of nifedipine without significant side effects. TD is known to be affected by drugs that affect dopamine neurotransmission. Several lines of pre-clinical and clinical evidence suggest interactions between the calcium antagonists and the CNS dopamine system and provide a possible explanation for the effects on TD seen with calcium antagonists."
"54"	"Verapamil in the treatment of schizophrenia."	"DICP : the annals of pharmacotherapy"	1990	"2260342"	""
"55"	"Effects of verapamil on tardive dyskinesia and psychosis in schizophrenic patients."	"The Journal of clinical psychiatry"	1989	"2562952"	"Nine hospitalized schizophrenic patients with tardive dyskinesia were treated with the calcium-channel antagonist verapamil under single-blind conditions. The tardive dyskinesia and activation scores decreased, and the anxiety/depression scores increased. The changes were small but statistically significant."
"56"	"Steady-state cerebrospinal fluid transfer of verapamil and metabolites in patients with schizophrenia."	"Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics"	1988	"3180637"	"Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma levels of verapamil and its two metabolites, norverapamil and D-620, were measured in seven patients with schizophrenia under steady-state conditions. Simultaneous sampling of CSF and plasma just before the dose during week 4 of the trial showed that verapamil, norverapamil, and D-620 partition in the CSF and reflect 7%, 5%, and 12% of the corresponding levels in plasma, respectively. There was a significant decrease in the mean unbound fraction of verapamil in schizophrenic patients as compared with normal subjects (0.058 vs. 0.11; p less than 0.001). Estimates of the mean unbound fraction obtained from CSF/plasma verapamil concentrations and the pH partition hypothesis showed excellent agreement with that measured by equilibrium dialysis (0.055 vs. 0.058) in these patients. Although systemic pool protein concentrations in schizophrenic patients were within normal range, an excellent positive correlation was observed between the ratio of the bound/free verapamil concentration and alpha 1-acid glycoprotein levels (r = 0.86; p less than 0.05). Determination and development of correlations between plasma and CSF may enhance our understanding of the central nervous system effects of verapamil."
"57"	"Effects of verapamil administration on negative symptoms of chronic schizophrenia."	"Psychiatry research"	1988	"3387506"	""
"58"	"Use of verapamil to treat negative symptoms in schizophrenia."	"Journal of clinical psychopharmacology"	1987	"3680609"	""
"59"	"Nifedipine in neuroleptic-refractory schizophrenia."	"Journal of clinical psychopharmacology"	1987	"2885346"	""
"60"	"Verapamil in treatment of severe schizophrenia."	"Acta psychiatrica Scandinavica"	1987	"2886012"	""
"61"	"Clinical and biochemical effects of verapamil administration to schizophrenic patients."	"Archives of general psychiatry"	1987	"3545130"	"We administered verapamil hydrochloride, a calcium channel antagonist, to seven chronically ill schizophrenic patients for five weeks under double-blind, placebo-controlled conditions. No therapeutic effect was noted. Worsening in hostile and uncooperative behaviors and a syndrome of heightened emotional tone was observed during verapamil treatment and during the postverapamil placebo period. Verapamil produced significant increases in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma levels of homovanillic acid and in plasma levels of prolactin, as well as significant decreases in plasma levels of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenethyleneglycol. Verapamil and its active metabolite, norverapamil, were partitioned into CSF with CSF/plasma ratios of 0.06 and 0.04, respectively. The lack of therapeutic effects of verapamil in schizophrenic patients differs from earlier reports of its usefulness in treating manic patients. The biochemical and clinical data from our study suggest the possibility that verapamil exerts behaviorally relevant central nervous system activity in schizophrenic patients."
"62"	"Verapamil in refractory schizophrenia: a case report."	"Progress in neuro-psychopharmacology &amp; biological psychiatry"	1987	"3628827"	"Verapamil, a papaverine calcium channel blocker, has been used effectively and safely in the treatment of angina pectoris and auricular arrhythmias, and more recently in the treatment of mania. Many antipsychotic drugs show calcium channel blocking effects similar to verapamil's. A 41 year old male schizophrenic, only partially responsive to haloperidol decanoate and oral haloperidol, was given increasing doses of verapamil concomitantly, and monitored clinically and by the BPRS, electrocardiogramme, and other laboratory measures. The patient's total BPRS score dropped from 79 to 41 and remained stable, after initial worsening at lower doses, at verapamil 80 mg po qid. Mild fatigue was the only side effect. Further investigation of verapamil in the treatment of schizophrenia is warranted."
"63"	"Verapamil in the treatment of chronic schizophrenia."	"Psychopharmacology bulletin"	1987	"3602324"	""
"64"	"Antipsychotic effects of verapamil in schizophrenia."	"The Hillside journal of clinical psychiatry"	1987	"3323023"	"The antipsychotic effects of verapamil were tested in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized study in 18 patients who met Research Diagnostic Criteria for acute schizophrenia. The antipsychotic effect of verapamil as measured by the Bunney-Hamburg Global Rating Scale were equal to those of haloperidol. Both verapamil and haloperidol were superior to placebo in decreasing psychotic symptoms. The results indicate that verapamil may have clinical utility in the treatment of schizophrenia."
"65"	"Verapamil in acute psychosis."	"Psychosomatics"	1986	"3797612"	""
"66"	"Effect of verapamil on platelet serotonin concentration in normal and schizophrenic subjects."	"Psychiatry research"	1986	"3797552"	""
"67"	"Treatment of schizophrenia with verapamil."	"Journal of clinical psychopharmacology"	1986	"3734147"	""
"68"	"A negative, double-blind, placebo-controlled, clinical trial of verapamil in chronic schizophrenia."	"Biological psychiatry"	1986	"3518822"	""
"69"	"Verapamil concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid after oral administration."	"The New England journal of medicine"	1985	"3990723"	""
"70"	"Antischizophrenic drugs of the diphenylbutylpiperidine type act as calcium channel antagonists."	"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America"	1983	"6136040"	"Antischizophrenic neuroleptic drugs of the diphenylbutylpiperidine class, which includes pimozide, fluspirilene, penfluridol, and clopimozide, inhibit [3H]nitrendipine binding with IC50 values of 13-30 nM. This inhibition involves receptors for the verapamil/prenylamine class of calcium channel antagonists. These diphenylbutylpiperidines also inhibit potassium-induced calcium-dependent contractions of rat vas deferens at concentrations of 40-350 nM. Other phenothiazine and butyrophenone neuroleptics lack such potent calcium-antagonist actions. Diphenylbutylpiperidines also differ from other neuroleptics in their ability to relieve negative symptoms of schizophrenia, such as emotional withdrawal, as well as the positive symptoms which respond to all neuroleptics. We suggest that these unique antischizophrenic actions are related to a blockade by diphenylbutylpiperidines of voltage-operated calcium channels."
"71"	"[Hyperthermia with acute rhabdomyolysis in a psychotic treated with neuroleptics]."	"Revue neurologique"	1983	"6139869"	"A 36 year old psychotic man receiving treatment with slow-release pipotiazine and trihexyphenidyl developed nine days after addition of droperidol signs suggestive of a malignant neuroleptic syndrome: altered general condition, diffuse hypertonia, akinesia, fever and vomiting. Results of biologic tests and a muscle biopsy were suggestive of a severe rhabdomyolysis. Cessation of neuroleptic therapy and the administrative of nifedipine brought a gradual return return to normal conditions, and progressively increasing doses of neuroleptic could be given without complications 12 days later. Onset of hyperthermia during neuroleptic treatment raises two questions: 1) is the etiology related to a malignant neuroleptic syndrome or acute catatonia, or a heat stroke? 2) to what extent are neuroleptics responsible for these disorders?"
"72"	"Clinical evaluation of cinnarizine in patients with cerebral circulatory deficiency."	"Arzneimittel-Forschung"	1972	"4554633"	""
